In the previous episode,
we explored the early history
of our songbooks,
but it ended with a twist.
For the most part, we stopped singing
at congregation meetings in the late 1930’s.
For how long?
Publications in the archive
reveal that it was from 1938 to 1944.
And though brothers and sisters
did sing at conventions,
they really missed singing together
at congregation meetings.
When did we start again?
It was a time of rapid progress
—new methods were tried;
meeting formats changed.
Welcome to 1944.
You’re at the United Announcers’
Theocratic Assembly
in Buffalo, New York, U.S.A.
The clock above the arena floor
reads 4:30 in the afternoon.
Brother F. W. Franz steps up to give a talk
called “Song of Kingdom Service.”
He says: “It is proper
“and pleasing to God for His earthly servants
to lift their voices in literal song.”
As he’s speaking,
Brother Nathan Knorr steps forward
and hands him a red booklet.
Then Brother Franz announces
the release of the Kingdom Service Song Book.
He explains that this book will be used
for singing at congregation meetings.
The crowd is overjoyed!
Singing was once again a part
of our meetings.
Since then, we’ve received
several new songbooks
—each one a gift from Jehovah.
Songs from the 1950 and 1966 songbooks
used terms from the more recently released
New World Translation
of the Christian Greek Scriptures.
The topics and lyrics were more up-to-date,
and any songs with false religious teachings
were removed.
From the Kingdom Service Song Book  forward,
the names of the composers and lyricists
were not published.
All credit was given to Jehovah.
By 1984,
musical arrangements were simplified.
They even added chords, so it was easier
to play the songs on guitar and piano.
We produced records, cassettes, CDs,
and digital files
so that you could sing along
at the Kingdom Hall, at home, or in the car.
Jehovah’s people had so much music to enjoy
in printed or recorded form.
But that wasn’t always the case everywhere,
which takes us back
to where we started in Part 1
—that secret recording from Siberia.
During World War II,
our brothers in the former Soviet Union
faced extreme opposition.
Imagine yourself there.
You have almost no printed literature.
Much of it is just copied by hand.
You could be subjected
to forced labor and exile
if caught with a copy of The Watchtower.
The only songbook
available to them in Russian
was the 1928 songbook.
This means that they didn’t receive
the 1984 songbook,
the 1966 songbook,
the 1950 songbook,
or the 1944 songbook.
What would you do?
Would you stop singing?
Did they?
They sang what they already had
in their minds and hearts.
They made copies of the 1928 songbook,
like this one.
Our brothers and sisters kept singing
even in the darkest of times.
And they did this for decades
until they were finally able
to lift their voices publicly in song
once again.
And that’s exactly what happened
at the first international convention
in the former Soviet Union in 1992.
At last, thousands of our brothers
could sing together.
But what would they sing,
since they didn’t have a current songbook?
Special brochures with lyrics were made
so that everyone could sing along.
So why is singing
so important to Jehovah’s Witnesses?
Because singing to Jehovah
keeps us close to him.
Singing Bible truths
embeds them in our heart,
and singing praises shows our appreciation
to the Creator of music, Jehovah,
for the gift of song.